	As we all know computers are electronic devices that are designed to work with information. It is the center of the study of every computer engineering students. As a fourth year computer engineering student, the journey of this course is not that simple. There are so many obstacles I faced and many of these obstacles were overcome through the perseverance, great patience and a heart that never give up. As part of the curriculum as a computer engineering student in Bohol Island State University Main Campus is to take the subject CPE 421 with a description of troubleshooting a computer system. Troubleshooting is a kind of a way in determining what is the problem and after determining the problem you can come up with a solution to it. This second semester of school year 2018-2019 I take up the subject troubleshooting. When the word troubleshooting pops up in my mind there are so many things I can imagine and the first thing I can think of this subject is a challenging one because in my lower years subject although I am very familiar of the word and I already oriented what it is about and already experienced troubleshooting specially in my past projects but this time it only focuses on pure troubleshooting and just by thinking doing hands-on examination it gives me chills. Troubleshooting is simple to do when the problem is also simple but if it is your first time and the problem is kind of unfamiliar and for you it is difficult to solve because you have no experience about this problem then it will be a challenging one. But you must not set your mind on the negative side because through practice and experiences you will be able to familiarize the process and perform it according to what you have learned; learning is part of the process. You must bear in mind that encountering new problems are always there and you are eager to find the right solutions to it but when you discovered the solution to the problem it made your spirit hype because you accomplished something. Professional trainings are very helpful too, trainings help you to develop more strategies /techniques and test your skills whether you can apply what you have learned or not. In this way it is easier for you to find right solutions and spends less amount of time in troubleshooting.
	During a whole semester of taking the subject; troubleshooting of computer systems, there are many tips and effective strategies I’ve learned that can very helpful in troubleshooting computers. Although at the beginning, taking up this subject made me feel nervous however as the class goes on I realized that it’s not that nervous at all because I found out that the subject teacher, Engr. Ralph Vincent Galao. I know how sir Galao teach and handle the class because he was one of my subject teacher and adviser when I was in my second year and third year as computer engineering student. During our first meet, before he begin to discuss about what troubleshooting is about, he first gave us few advises and motivational words that can help us be more positive in taking up the subject. I think that his intro is very needed to encourage us through the way. After these encouraging messages he then planned that we will first have a reporting about how to troubleshoot the different parts of a computer. We are divided and assigned to what topic we are going to report. We are randomly grouped by him and every group has two members, my partner is Mr. Violdan Bayocot. The topic given to us was keyboard. You may think that you know all about keyboard but you might be just like me that after I’ve search through the internet there are so many things I didn’t know about keyboard but I able to share what knowledge I have, the meaning, functions, types and how to troubleshoot it through reporting reporting to the class together with my partner. As we all know keyboards play a huge part in our journey as computer engineering students especially when coding programs. I think sir Galao wants us to do these reporting in order for us to learn and discover new things in our own way which I think is good because we did our best to understand fully what our topic is all about and we able to share the knowledge we have to our classmates. Reporting helps us to be independent and at the same time it helps ourselves to develop our self confidence in facing many people and able to have communication to the class. Sir does listening and grades the reporter’s performance, after a group done with their report sir Galao gives feedbacks and additional information if there is lacking about the report. Sir also appreciates the efforts of every group. Two months of reporting about how to troubleshoot computer with the supervision of sir Galao made me even have deeper understanding what the subject about and it brought lot of advantages in my learning. Sadly at the beginning of the year 2019 we heard news that he will no longer be our subject teacher. I think his decision in leaving the university and opening new chapters in his life is for the betterment of his self and I support him on what path he chose. Although the resignation of Sir Galao made me feel a little bit sad but that’s life there are people who left but there will be new people who will arrive. Our new instructor is Engr. Maks Perin, he continued what sir Galao left out in the class and made all the groups who are not done in their reporting finished their reports. After done with the reporting he gave us midterm exam on how to troubleshoot different computer parts. He gives us opportunity to troubleshoot a raspberry pi and a system unit of computer. We are task to list the problems and possible solutions through cooperating with our groupmates and with the help of internet. This kind of troubleshooting opportunity is beneficial because not all of us own raspberry pi and a system unit and now we experienced how to troubleshoot it.
	CPE 421 Troubleshooting of Computer System is a very interesting subject if you are motivated enough to learn and perform the task that the instructor assigned to you. You can discover new things on how to find solutions to the problems of the computer.
